that's why it matter well okay you need
to say hi in the beginning I realize I I
think we're alive
I hope we're alive let me check yeah can
you hey guys if you're there out there
um sorry it took a minute but streaming
streaming on the YouTube is impossible
the Sam Scheffer helped me out oh the
one and only Sam Scheffer helped me out
we're here in California it's working
sick yeah okay for a second let me just
see what the leg this is the first time
streaming so sorry for ten minutes late
but there's a learning curve I will get
better so is it working
Sam yes okay so I'm going to use Sam's
computer for the comments so I can see
there's a lot what you guys okay good
I'm excited to have all you guys in here
and if you you have to duck out this
will be on my channel afterwards and so
what I'm basically going to do is this
is an existent this is the vlog that I
posted yesterday this is basically what
my premiere timeline looks like and my
vlogs are messy and but I'm going to
take you guys through basically from
start to beginning awesome yes and I see
your comments everyone say hi and thank
you Sam thank you thank you Sam everyone
say thank you Sam Shepard go follow him
on Twitter or YouTube you yeah and
YouTube Hey cool ok sick and so I guess
there's a little bit of a logic 10 or 13
seconds okay okay cool um sweet okay so
basically I'm going to try to start anew
thank you Sam mmm-hmm new project save
so I'm basically gonna take you from
beginning to end on kind of the process
of working in Premiere hello hi Sam hey
showing love to Sam sick so there is a
little bit of a delay um do you think
it's going to because I'm not seeing it
on can you make this like full screen
cuz I don't think it's updating on there
this was enough oh okay perfect
okay sir what do you think the Final Cut
Pro yeah what do I think of Final Cut
Pro alright that's perfect and I can
just like squint okay awesome
so basically I have a new project pulled
up and I want to take you guys to the
basics let me know in the comments what
kind of levels I'm working with but this
is going to be kind of for beginners
because I know a lot of you have just
gotten premier I want to dabble in it or
maybe coming from Final Cut so I started
in Final Cut Pro or Express I started
Final Cut Express and I use Final Cut
Pro 7 and it's a very familiar very
familiar look of Premiere and that's why
I really enjoy premiere now I used to
use Final Cut 10 a lot um but that just
did not work out for me so I'm going to
start in with like footage how do you
just get your footage and how I organize
my footage and so this is basically I
have a new hard drive so I just started
a new vlog folder but this is kind of
how I organize this is a new hard drive
so I don't have as much stuff in here
but I organized it by year
so it starts 2016 and I just have my
vlogs and then my other YouTube videos
um my bigger hard drive my Lacey has all
my stuff and this is what it'll
eventually look like you know I have
video I have in video I organized by
year I have my Photoshop and photos but
I'm working off of these Samsung t3 SSD
so it is a super fast hard drive it's
SSD versus just like what a Lacey is and
so when it comes to footage so this is
my previous day so December 1st I just
organized it by date I have the date and
I have all the footage in here so I just
drop all the footage into the folder I
have my go
crow and iPhone footage and then I have
my premiere folder this is where I put
like the project where I put some nails
and things and so when I want to import
footage first I just create a bin
I say footage and then I'm going to
import all this footage and just drop in
there and you guys know I love slow-mo
and so I get a lot of questions about
slow motion um someone just asked how's
the peacocks p.o box doing I will get to
my P o box mail soon I haven't checked
in about two weeks so if you send me a
if you send me something oh it's frozen
it's frozen frozen frozen frozen it's
not frozen here can you guys hear me
only see Adobe do you see the screen do
you see my mouse moving do you see me
moving around so maybe that messed it up
only see Adobe Premiere okay I got you
so you couldn't see me importing footage
okay that makes sense but can you see
Adobe Premiere now yeah because it's
doing gotcha gotcha okay so learning
curve apparently you can't see anything
other than Premiere so basically I'll
walk you through how I organize footage
at a later time but I just brought in
the footage okay so as long as you're
only streaming from one way right all
right there is a learning curve to this
livestream sorry so we're gonna have to
stay inside premiere but basically all I
did is I just brought in my footage from
my hard drive folders and I just
organized it by date I drop all the
footage into one folder bring it in to
Premiere and so when you're doing slo-mo
footage and I remember when I first was
learning about cameras and frame rates
it was very very confusing so I film
most of my stuff in 24 frames per second
it's technically 23.976 frames per
second but I film and export everything
in 24 frames per second and when you
want to do slo-mo you
and a higher framerate and then in
premiere you basically slow it down to
that 24 frames per second so you can see
here so I'm going to go through the
basics of just the windows in premiere
because I know it can look very
confusing
so this first window that you have here
you have the project folder and this is
where you organize all your stuff you
can do it in the big thumbnail format or
you can do it in this format I usually
keep it this way and then when you
double click these folders you can
create a new folder where you can have
all your footage and stuff and organize
it like that and I keep it where you can
see the thumbnails and stuff and so this
is your project window where you see all
your footage and everything that you
bring in to premiere and also where you
can see effects and I have like a
favorites folder right like all of my
favorite effects and to the questions
yes this is going to be on my youtube
channel afterwards but I am going to be
taking questions throughout so after 10
minutes of talking I will ask if you
guys have questions and I will take the
specific questions because that's the
benefit of a live stream I can cater to
what you guys want so this is the first
window and the source window up here is
where you preview your videos so when
you double click a footage it comes up
here and this is where you can say oh I
like this part of the clip clip so I'm
going to set my endpoint in my out point
and that's when you can drop it into a
sequence and then so I'm going to start
a sequence basically your sequence is
where you edit so this is where all the
editing magic happens so since I record
everything export everything in 24
frames per second I just go with the
DSLR 1080 24 frames per second stream
okay and can you guys see the I don't
see it right now so maybe they can't I
don't know if you guys can see this
screen but basically how you create a
new like a sequence is you just go to
new sequence and will pop up a window I
don't know if you can see this window
and yeah I don't think they can but you
just title what your sequence
and then it creates a sequence so it
will be interesting to see if I'm using
OBS for you guys who are asking yeah
they can't see that screen
interesting interesting no it's fine
it's fine
well these live streams will get better
yes okay so you couldn't see that screen
because basically all you see you guys
right now is this window I'll figure
that out later times basically when you
say new sequence you'll pop up a window
just go to the DSLR 1080 24 frames per
second preset and then it will start a
new sequence so basically this is where
you drop down your video clips and all
the movie magic starts to happen and so
your two windows where you see videos
are this one on the left and the right
so say we really like this clip you're
going to set your in and out points and
I'm not going to be using a lot of
shortcuts if you want to know how to be
like a ninja with the shortcuts I do
have a specific video on that you can
watch my channel but for the basic
shortcuts in Premiere you set your end
point by pressing I and your out point
by pressing o and then you'll take that
clip and just drag it down into the
sequence and then to make the video
bigger or smaller you press the plus or
minus buttons for zooming in and out of
that and that just allows more precise
editing and basically takes your
timeline and you know this is from 0 to
4 seconds if you make it bigger and it
increases that and so and this window to
the right this is where you see what
your video is actually going to look
like so you start building you know you
start building your timeline like oh
this is fun surfing so say your in and
out points and you drop your video down
here and so this is your video that's
coming together this is where you're
going to see the final product what the
final product is going to look like and
on the left here is basically where you
just preview your clips and so your in
and out points to what you want you know
your video to look like and I know
this is all like very basic but please
let me know what your guys is like
levels are and if you have questions
along the way I'm going to stop you like
okay questions about that I see Sean
Duras yeah so yeah there's not a big
difference between I am going to get
more advanced as we go along so y'all
don't get salty if you already know this
type of stuff um and so a little trick
that I use because I was talking about
slow motion I'll talk about slow motion
right now a trick that I use to know
what clips are what frame rates is so I
have 24 frames per second I have 60
frames per second I have 120 frames per
second and these are all settings that I
change within my Sony rx100 5
it's a point-and-shoot camera and you
can select the different frame rates on
the camera and so that is all changed
via the camera I capture it and then you
know when I bring it to premiere it
detects the frame rates or whatever um
what I like to do is I like to color
code based on frame rates so all of the
24 frames per second clips are going to
be blue so on the left this is what the
labels are and I'm going to take all the
60 frames per second footage and I'm
just yeah watch it I'm going to take all
of going to select all of these 60
frames per second videos I don't know if
you all are going to be able see the
right-click but I basically just
right-click it and then go to label and
then I label it rose or just another
color it'll be interesting to see if you
see this yeah the right-click it's
interesting what OBS shows and what it
doesn't show let's see I'm watching it
on Stan's computer so I can see it
doesn't but it doesn't show the
right-click that's interesting so I'll
figure that out but basically you just
right-click the footage and you know
what I could do maybe I can pull up I
have that key
thing where it shows you what you're
pressing forgot what it's called
mmm and hold on guys I'm going to try to
help you out here but no it wouldn't
show the screen okay okay and then 120
frames I'm basically going to color code
this mango so now what you have is you
have all these clips that 24 frames per
second they're labeled blue you have the
60 frames per second they're labeled
pink or rows that's the one thing that I
hate about premiere is the colors are
like names that you can't even say like
why don't just call that pink but it's
rose and then you have mango for 120
frames per second yeah oh yeah peach
color so once you have all of that and I
just I'm going to go back to this view
because it is really helpful when you're
editing to see the thumbnails and you
can scrub through them just by you know
putting the mouse over it and then so
that way when you're dragging over Clips
so say let's see so say I want this clip
um I don't think that's a slo-mo one so
I'm like oh this is a pretty I'm going
to set my in and out points I want that
much I'm going to drop it down the
timeline but look it's a different color
so basically normally you would have to
right-click and clipping say go into
properties and see what the frame rate
is but because you color-coded it you
automatically know oh I can bring that
to slow motion and because it's orange I
know that it's 120 frames per second
clip so I can apply a 20% slow motion to
it so here is and to apply slow motion
you basically do command R and then just
type in the percentage and so now it
says 20 percent and it is that beautiful
slo-mo opposed to if it was like a
hundred percent which is just the normal
fast speed um and so I wish I could do
this math on the screen somehow but I'm
going to kind of break down slow motion
for you guys a really quick so in a 24
frames per second timeline in order to
get slow motion from a 60 frames per
second clip you apply a 40% slow motion
so you basically just hit and you go to
clip modify
speed duration or you can press command
R to get to those settings so say you
have a 60 frames per second clip you
record you record you surfing or
whatever in 60 frames per second if you
want that in slow-mo you drop it in to
your Timeline press command R change the
speed by 40% because if you do 60 times
0.4 that equals 24 so that will get you
smooth slow motion to 24 frames per
second timeline if you want to get
smooth 24 frames per second slow motion
from a clip that's 120 frames per second
you press command R change the speed
duration and you change the speed by 20%
because 120 times point two is equal to
24 frames 24 so that's your math lesson
for this beautiful Saturday morning I
know that might hurt your brain and but
the long story short is when you're
doing slow motion you want your frame
rate to equal 24 at the end so you take
whatever you filmed a you know in
whether that's 60 frames per second 120
frames per second and you basically do
some mouths to wear 120 times what
percentage is equal to 24 frames whoo
that sounded so confusing I am so sorry
guys or yeah or you can like do the
interpret footage that's a whole other
method and you can like right click it
and say like interpret 2 timeline or
whatever but I don't know I don't like
that way a math tips with Sara who loves
math I love math ok
so that's kind of the basics on slow
motion or whatever does anyone have any
questions about that yeah you can
interpret everyone saying you can
interpret it or whatever um but
you can't interpret the footage test
another one just look up like interpret
and it's basically where you right-click
a clip and say interpret and it will
automatically put it whatever the
timeline is um but tomato tomahto yay we
love math okay any questions any
questions any questions fix the view can
you let us
oh they can't see the cursor that's
interesting oh so you can't see what I'm
pointing at you guys can't even see the
cursor okay that's interesting the more
streams I do the better it will get this
is kind of like the trial run Sam and
you're all a part of it the Peachy fan
we're going to get better together um so
just to recap I don't know how to put up
the cursor so I'm sorry but if you have
any questions just let me let me know
okay how about time-lapse that's a great
question thank you for questions um so I
don't use time lapses a lot um I
actually do the complete opposite I
really like slow motion but let me show
you so there's two ways to do time
lapses
there's the fancy way um and then
there's just the way that I'm sure Casey
does it and Sam does it and the rest of
the world does it you can get you know
you can do the time lapse thing where
you buy the accessory and it basically
automatically lets your camera capture
multiple pictures for a certain time
frame and you can set in like the
settings and everything but that is so
difficult and you don't have to do that
so basically all you have to do is set
your camera on a freaking tripod or
something capture something for about 15
minutes so say you want to capture this
beautiful sunset and I would basically
set it on a tripod for 15 minutes hit
the record button so you just record
video for literally 15 minutes and then
you come in here in Premiere and you get
your clip that's 15 minutes long and
okay this is going to be a pro tip
coming up you go in and you change the
speed of it just like I showed you
you're not going to be able to see this
window because this is very difficult
that you can't see
the speed but basically what I did is I
did command R and it's changing clip and
speed duration and instead of 100% speed
just put in like nine hundred percent
and that will speed up your clip and
it'll basically speed it up like a
time-lapse and I'm really sorry again
that you can't see the me changing that
um it will improve as time goes along
but see my clip just shrunk down to this
little thing and so now it's like way
faster of course it wasn't um Sarah can
we try and switch the display capture
someone began to be a very specific
instruct okay yeah do this yeah okay
hold on guys we're gonna try we're gonna
try and help you help you out we're
gonna change the let's do this display
capture undo premiere - okay so now this
has to do this and if we go back into
premiere now let's wait okay okay good
Sam to the rescue guys well Jacob Boone
to the rescue okay Jacob thank you let's
see if this works yeah everyone's saying
screen capture screen capture there we
go okay yay just now anything you want
your computer is gonna be very right
right okay I can't show you all the
crazy behind the scenes secret stuff now
okay can you see my cursor now yay
finally okay okay
because we can do this now I'm going to
open up this application where you can
see what I'm typing so it'll help you
out um I just have to remember what it's
called key caster here we go guys we're
getting it okay so now you can hopefully
see let's see so command or yes oh my
gosh we are in business now fam whoo
thanks for hanging in there with me
we're figuring it out and it's gonna
it's going to get better every every
single time we do it um
perfect okay so let's hop back into
as time-lapse as timeless as time Isis
so this wasn't intended to be a
time-lapse but I have a clip the sunset
say you know it's 15 minutes long I
would press command R oh my gosh a new
spectacle bot just dropped Sam is
freaking out um you should be like my
livestream character where everyone's
like like in the background doing
commentary and stuff so when you want to
do a time-lapse you basically just
change the speed duration so if you have
a 15 minute clip you'll want to do like
the max speed so you'll type in like 900
and then when you have a long plug
usually that won't even be fast enough
so what you want to do I think the max
speed you can go and premiere is like
1,100 thousand percent and sometimes
that's not even enough so in order to
increase the speed even more here's a
protip pro tip alert what you want to do
is you want to nest it so if you don't
know what nesting means um
nesting basically takes your clip and it
says okay this clip that is eleven
hundred percent fast we're going to take
this clip we're going to nest it and
basically this becomes like a nested
sequence but how its viewed in Premiere
is it looks like a brand new clip that
is only going a hundred percent speed so
now you can take this nested clip and
speed it even more because so you double
click it you'll have this clip in here
this is eleven hundred percent but when
it's in a nested sequence it views it
just as a clip that's going it's normal
speed 100% so you can go in when you
click command R and change the speed
again look the duration is at one
hundred instead of eleven hundred so now
you can go and increase this even more
by like four hundred percent and that
makes it even a faster time-lapse did
that make sense to the fan let me know
if you have any questions comments
concerns about that and I'll go into
nest the nested sequence a little bit
more because it comes into handy for a
lot of things
pro tip pro tip yeah such a handy uh
nesting thanks again of course Ronnie
um can you do slow-mo to 25 or 30 frames
yes so you can actually so what I
actually do a lot is um or not a lot you
can if you film something in 30 frames
per second and you bring it into a 24
frames per second timeline um what you
can do with that is let me just make
sure my math is right yeah so if you do
30 times 0.8 that is equal to 24 frames
per second so you can take 30 frames per
second and slow it down to 80% and it
will basically look like 24 frames per
second footage but it's just going to
smooth it out a little bit so any
questions about nesting nesting yes
that's what I'm about to talk about
Roberto okay so I'm going to go more
into the nesting thing but before
someone asked a question why 24 frames
per second over 30 frames per second so
honestly it's a preference so the frames
per second means how many think of when
you're filming something it's taking 24
pictures in one second and then it puts
that together to make one second of a
video so when you're filming at 30
frames per second that just means it's
taking six more pictures in a second and
shoving that into a video clip so that
means you're going to get more motion
I like 24 frames per second just because
it seems the most natural like as to
what we see with our eye but say you
want say you're filming like sports yay
sports ball or you're filming like you
know National Geographic filming a
cheetah going across the plains so means
skateboarding with stuff that's like a
ton of motion and you want to get like
every single ounce of that motion really
like you know capitalize on that
that's when maybe you want to film like
it's 30 frames or 60 frames and that
means you're capturing more frames per
second um and then when you drop that 60
frames per second clip into a 60 frames
per second timeline then you're going to
capture all that motion and it's going
to seem weird if you do that for a
normal video just because it's not
natural to your eye
because if you've seen like The Hobbit
or like The Hobbit was film in 48 frames
per second and it when you watch it in
theatres it doesn't even seem real
like it I hated that movie just because
it was framed it was filmed in a high
frame rate and it's not natural to the
eye so I like 24 frames per second just
because it's like more film like it
seems smoother where's the threshold of
frame rate when you get into slow-mo
like how when you go to 120 is that guy
start doing slow-mo or 60 no like you
can you can do slow-mo so Sam just asked
a good question like at what point I
guess can you start doing slow-mo so it
really slowed down 24 we're right
exactly yeah so the thing is and also in
future streams you'll see my face guys
and so when I when these talking parts
won't be as boring and when you're doing
slow-mo you have a 24 frames per second
sequence and you know you obviously
can't do slow-mo with 24 frames you can
but it's going to be choppy and it's
going to look gross so the moment you
jump up to 30 frames you can do slow-mo
30 frames per second it's just not going
to be super slow-mo so you just have to
do that math so 30 times 0.8 is equal to
24 so that means you can slow down
that's 30 30 frames per second clip by
80% and it's going to look smooth in a
24 frames per second timeline so
basically you have say this clip is 30
frames per second you're filming in a 24
your sequence is 24 frames per second
you would just do 80% speed and that's
going to equal to 24 frames per second
okay so slow-mo that's a whole thing
when it comes to who is familiar with
warp stabilization do you guys know what
warp stabilization is so basically I'm
going to set my in and out points to
this clip this clip is like kind of
shaky it could be smoother so say I want
to apply warp stabilization to this clip
what that does is it basically smoothes
it out so you know it's kind of shaky um
I'm going to go in here apply a work
this in here kind of search work
I'm going to drag the effect over to the
clip and so it's analyzing in the
background so basically what warp
stabilization does is it makes your
clips smoother now yeah I heart work
okay so it's good you guys know at warp
stabilization is so I'm going to answer
a question that I get a lot and of
course warp helps you know if you have
shaky hands and your camera doesn't have
like some type of built-in stabilization
and so when you apply an effect to a
clip and you want to modify that effect
or whatever you just double-click the
clip go up to your source monitor window
and just press effect controls and this
is where all of the effects and stuff
are so if you want to zoom in to this
clip you can change it here change the
scale if you want to change the position
you know you can change the y-axis like
that the x-axis like this and then since
we just applied warp stabilization it's
right here and you can change the
specific parameters here but it does a
good job with automatically figuring out
but see guide this looks terrible this
is a good example of a clip what not to
use word stabilization on it works the
best with clips that just have a little
bit of the handshake when you're like
walking or something if there's major I
was in a bus and so it was super shaky
and there's no really like like look how
terrible that looks you can change this
stuff to make it less but I'm just
trying to use this to prove a point
so say okay you apply wort stabilization
to this and it looks great you're
satisfied with it but you also want to
change the speed of this so say this is
a time lapse of a beautiful sunset but
it was super windy so your tripod has a
little bit of shake on it
and so you applied work stabilization
but you still want to apply speed so
this is where nesting comes in handy
because so we applied warp say we want
to change the speed so I want to speed
this up three times as fast
and then you get this notification warp
stabiliser and speed cannot be used in
the same clip which is like lame because
there's a lot of instances when you want
to do both so I'm just going to edit
undo that and so we're going to go back
to the nesting thing when you nest this
clip it basically tells premiere that
this is a entirely new clip this clip
hasn't had warp stabilization this clip
hasn't had anything affected to it so
now you can go and take this nested
sequence and you can change the speed
and duration of this nested sequence so
I'm going to make it three times faster
and so now it has no problem and now you
have work stabilization and speed
changed on the same clip and so nesting
comes in handy when you need to either
apply something to a wide range of clips
or you need to and then it puts it in
the project as like a nested sequence so
say we have this other clip look how
beautiful Eric looks looking off into
the sunset say I want all these clips
and I want to do something with you know
we have this clip you can also nest
nested sequence you can just you can do
all the things you can nest and nested
yeah you just keep on going however long
you want here's me talking cool so I'm
going to drop all these things so I have
this little sequence put together and
say I want to do something with this you
can literally just grab all the clips
you can nest it and now this is one huge
clip that you can go and do whatever you
want with you can apply effect to that
and then to get to those individual
Clips you just double click and it puts
it in this its own nested sequence like
a little timeline thing so nesting is
super super handy so I've been talking a
lot I haven't been paying attention to
the comments ask me a question question
comments concerns um and I will answer
them
I can't I couldn't figure out how to
show my face for the stream but I will
in future streams I'll have a little
Sarah in the corner for you guys yay
just blew my mind good oh can you
unnecessary
coffee what was in your nest and then go
back and just like copy paste okay
here's a pro tip about copying and
pasting that is super handy and isn't
really anywhere um it took me a while to
learn this but okay so I just had those
clips and say I have you know let's like
fill this out a little bit so we have
that clip we have this clip um and we
have me talking um okay and then we have
let's see we have Oh Sam walking with a
surfboard fantastic awesome stuff good
content okay so we have our little
sequence here or whatever and say we
have something that we want to like a
copy and paste over it and okay this
would be a good example of title I'll go
into titles in a minute so say I want to
copy and paste these clips like over
this for some reason I don't know when
you would ever do this but it's
applicable to copy and pasting you want
a copy and paste stuff so I don't want
to if I just simply say command V and
copy and paste it it's going to copy and
paste it over r-e my existent clip see
how it did that like no thank you it'll
do it where the time the playhead is um
but I don't want to do that I mean you
can come over here copy and paste it and
then just like go and drag it like that
um but I want
copy and paste it on the v2 track and
then I want the audio to be on the a to
track so basically how you do that is
you use these toggles over here so you
untie --gel the v1 and a1 tracks and so
basically this is going to tell premiere
- I'm going to click that click the a
I'm going to put the a I'm going to
toggle the a2 and then I'm going to
collect Z 2 and then toggle to the V 2
so now V 1 and a1 are not highlighted
but because these tracks V 2 and a 2 are
now highlighted when you copy and paste
that video those video clips in the
audio clip are now going to paste on the
a to track and the v2 track and the V 2
yeah track
so this comes in handy when you know say
in order to create a title you just go
to new title I'm going to say like a
title and I'm going to say like
California and let's see we'll do like
I'm not going to reveal my the text I
use I'm sorry I know I get a lot of
those questions but it's the secret
Peachy font yeah
yeah and it's it's a font that I bought
it's not something that is naturally on
the computer ok so I drag that title
down here so say I'm like editing I have
different titles different places but I
want to put this title over these clips
in the beginning this is my title so say
I copy and if I normally the things
would be like this and I just say
copy/paste uh but it pasted like over my
clips I don't want that I want it like
on the v2 track so I just go to be to
highlight that copy paste now it pasted
over over the footage that's a very
flattering image of things um so yeah
hopefully that helps does that help does
that help um let's see can you show me
how to make a motion graphic lyric video
that is an entirely different video
secret peach hunt it's lagging a little
bit super lag okay it's logging sorry
okay now the audio is back sorry for
technical difficulties I'll chill here
for two seconds how do you make a preset
for a specific color great that's a good
question let me know if I'm back and it
relax guys it'll be back yeah it
occasionally will freeze and stuff um
okay now it's good good good okay here's
here's a good
okay can you motion track in Premiere um
let me give an example of why I really
like Premiere um over like Final Cut 10
or something I really do not like the
magnetic timeline in Final Cut 10 I like
how you can just a lot of times how I
organize things is I'll do like vlogs
and stuff into sections so I'll say okay
this is a surfing section so I'll kind
of like fill out these clips over here
I'll put that over there and I'll just
have you know a group of clips like over
here in my timeline and then I'll come
over here and then you know I'll move
things around and I just like my
timeline to be non-magnetic if that
makes sense if you've used Final Cut
before you know what I mean um and so
here's one of the reasons why I like
editors that are laid out like premiere
Final Cut used to do this but when it
comes to tracking anything when it comes
to doing any sorts of effects at all you
do it via like keyframes and basically
what this means is say I want to take
this clip and I want to zoom in to Sam
holding his surfboard over time so this
clip is oh well terrible here let me
this is a 60
four seconds I'm just going to slow it
down a little bit okay so this is a
terrible clip but whatever I delete that
okay so we're working on this clip so I
want to take this clip and I want to
zoom in gradually to Sam basically you
control all effects via keyframes and
what this means is if you go into the
motion tab of a fix and if I want to
zoom I want to control the scale so I
would press this little button so this
is like toggle animation and this is
basically just starting a keyframe so if
you see and okay yeah what is a keyframe
so a keyframe is this little dot so what
this dot means is at this point in time
this video is at 100% scale or if you
use a keyframe up here for position I'm
going to toggle keyframe this is a
keyframe under the position that says
that this video is located at this
position so in order to change things
over time you basically use these
keyframe animations so we're focusing on
scale right now we want to gradually
zoom in to this clip so what you would
do is you would say okay I'm going to
move this keyframe to the very beginning
of the clip so at this keyframe you see
this little dot and you see the start it
is at 100% scale right here and then you
would go to the end of your clip and you
would set another keyframe at the end of
your clip by pressing this button so it
says add or remove keyframe so I'm going
to press that and that now adds a
keyframe here so we've just added
keyframes so it doesn't change anything
yet um but because I want you have to
say where you want your video at the
beginning and at the end of the video or
whatever you set your keyframe so I want
to zoom it in to like that by the end of
the video and so now this keyframe that
we just set is
at 131 for the scale so that just means
it's oom din but if you click this
button go back to your previous keyframe
that is set at scale of 100 so now if
you see and it's like a very you can see
it happening you're basically going to
be going from 100 scale right here to a
hundred and 30 over here so you press
spacebar and you see it gradually
zooming in let's do it more dramatic
let's do like super zooms so you can
tell see it's like gradually zooming in
to his head I mean this is a terrible
example but hopefully you understand the
concept because you can take these
keyframes and apply it to anything that
means you can take a let's take like a
black and white or let's just you okay
here's a good example
so luma tree color panel for color
grading this is a great thing to use in
Premiere to color grade um I'm going to
and then to just remove keyframes you
just delete so now this is a normal a
normal clip so say I want to take this
clip and I want to gradually like make
it black and white so I go on to luma
tree color if you want to the luma tree
color panel is just an effect that you
add to any clip to basically start color
rating or color correcting you can
change basic Corrections so you can
adjust exposure which makes it more
bright you can adjust contrast you do
whatever you want and what's so great
about this whole key framing thing and
in Premiere is you can apply any effect
contrast exposure anything over a period
of time and change it this is what these
little dots are for so every single
effect that you'll ever apply in
Premiere there will be a toggle keyframe
thing to where you can say okay I want
this clip to gradually get more writer
or something you would just press this
key frame so it just created a keyframe
in the beginning and if you want to
gradually get it writer you would set
another keyframe at the end and just to
show you I just you know blew it out
now it's gradually getting brighter
so of course there's not like I would
never normally do that but keyframes are
so handy when doing anything say you
want to track a title or something this
is a good example of something you would
actually want to do maybe you want to
make this title bigger you want it to
like blow up over the period of time so
you would say okay scale you would
create a keyframe in the beginning and
then you go to the end of this clip and
you would make it bigger and so this is
basically saying at this keyframe at the
end you want it to be this size and then
at the very beginning it's this size and
so now once you play it it's getting
bigger over a period of time so that is
just a very handy part of premiere is
it's a very uh I don't with the word a
very visual way to create effects over
time and yeah I just had so many words
so fast and I wasn't looking at anything
you guys are saying so please let me
know um if you have questions and yes
you can be very nitpicky and just press
like the right or left keys to adjust by
frames and like the specific keys and
stuff and of course you can do way more
advanced stuff and after-effects but I
stay in Premiere for pretty much
everything
you're welcome the short life how do you
play videos backwards okay how do you
play videos backwards you basically just
click the clip press your clip speed
duration thing like I was saying earlier
and then click this reverse speed press
okay and it reverses your clip
much does it cost premier is like a
monthly subscription so if your student
you can get all the Adobe apps for $30 a
month if you're just a normal human
being I think it's fifty a month how do
you color great yeah so I'm going to add
I did a whole thing on color grading
over on Adobe's channel um and I will
add that video to the description below
after the stream uhm but yeah I'll tell
you I use magic bullets so I'll show you
and let's see magic bullet okay so magic
bullet is a separate software that I
think they're actually I think they have
like a sale going on I think it was
yesterday
sorry or it might be today it might be
today so check out their website it's
magic bullet it's basically software
that you buy that's like a plugin for
premiere so when you download it you'll
have it pop up in your effects and I use
the film I use this so I basically use
the film effect of metropolitana what it
looks like
I'll give the people what they want I'm
not going to show you specifically I'm
not going to show you the secret secret
sauce of like all of my settings but I
will show you oh that's an attractive
face and that's the danger of like you
know editing yeah um so what I would do
I go to magic bullets going to film and
so I just apply that effect over my club
as you can see it's like very dark and
gritty it's like that's not how I would
normally color correct but you go into
this film effect and there's a lot of
different options um going into it and
so the camera that I shoot with it
shoots with a pretty flat profile um so
I would go here go in here and choose
flat if it was like a super contrast II
punchy saturated
look so if you're shooting with a canon
DSLR and you're not changing the presets
within that it would be more of a video
format and then log basically is the
insanely flat profile of a fancy fancy
camera when I say flat when you hear
people say flat profile that just means
a very non contrast II unsaturated look
um and so you can go into here you can
change the different film looks and this
is the thing it doesn't look that good
just with all the presets and that's
when you have to kind of understand what
is contrast to what a saturation do and
you can go in here and change things
accordingly because you can change the
color temperature whether it's more red
or more blue you can change the tint of
more purple or more green you know
change the exposure so it took a lot of
like okay what negative stuff do I like
what
setting do I like here how much country
trick saturation do I have to add in
stuff um so just right there like I put
no thought into it but it's already like
a cool film look like that looks pretty
rad right it's not like the exact look
of my videos but that's just kind of
like a subtle filming look which is it
looks cool um and so that is a thing
that is via magic bullet that's not
included within premiere but color
grading ignore that like ignore things
that you have to buy right now when if
you know nothing about color correction
or color grading the first thing you
need to dabble around with is the luma
tree color panel so just go into your
settings search luma tree it's under
color question its setting you drag and
drop over to your clip and you can start
dabbling with you know color correcting
on flips so this is going to teach you
really okay what does temperature and
tint mean what does exposure contrast
highlights shadows mean maybe someday
I'll go into a more in depth thing where
you know you can pull up scopes and you
can pull up certain things that gauge
you know how like getting your exposure
correct and stuff but
for the pace that I edit you know I have
to pump out these vlogs really fast I
don't sit here in color correcting color
grade according to like what a scope
says I'll just sit here and I'll change
things um to my liking like how I how it
looks over here and so just really start
playing with this like what is if I
bring up the whites what does that do it
I bring up the blacks what does that do
so basically when you go left on the
blocks it just makes your blacks blacker
when you go to the right on your blacks
and makes your blacks like wider if that
makes sense
um and there's so many options you can
do sharpening so go into creative you
can sharpen your image which is huge and
final cut 10 there was no options for
sharpening and that killed me I did not
like that um so you know that will like
sharpen your video just like sharpening
and an image you can change vibrance and
saturation and something that I'll
normally do to a video is you can just
throw an s-curve on it basically what
that means is you go into the curves you
put some points here I know this might
be going over somebody else heads but
you can go back and watch it and search
you know Google s-curve and like what
does that do that kind of just you know
creates a different look to your video I
mean this looks like garbage but I'm
just trying to communicate what it does
if you like the faded look you can take
this s-curve bring up this thing and it
gets the faded look but also within this
limit recolor panel there is a slider
option for fade it gives you so many
great look it has a faded film option
you can go press that and it gives you
that faded film look so there's so many
great options like luma tree color is
the only thing you need to worry about
when you start out with color grading
because they already have actually built
in looks so you don't have to go and buy
the Magic Bullet thing what I was
talking about they already have some
cool like film looks with in here so you
can apply like oh that looks I mean it
doesn't look rad but you can change the
intensity so normally when I color grade
I never have any effects with the
intensity of like 100% and so you'll
change it to like 50 so that like lowers
the intensity of the effect
and so like cool that looks rad so
there's a lot of just presets within
luma tree color that you can use and so
you would just go in here play around
with a different effects see what you
like you can change the intensity you
can change sharpening you know vibrance
just go through and click you know
figure out what does this all do and
once you figure out how to get the look
you want it's going to be freshening
it'll take a while but once you figure
out the look that you want and you can
like physically do it via these
individual parameters you're going to be
able it's going to be easier for you to
go in and get these presets through
magic bullet or something and take those
looks and make them the way you want
them to look look like because when you
buy presets you do those things they're
never going to look good straight out of
the box like when you drag and drop a
Magic Bullet film preset onto your film
clip it's not going to look good so
you're gonna have to know how to go in
and grab it and adjust it so I'm going
to strain for five more minutes if you
guys have any questions please ask me
questions about um this cam em let's see
how do I create space between clips
that's a really good question
okay how do I create space between clips
in the middle of an edited video I have
the problem where I want to add
something in the middle of the video but
there's no space okay so crazy so I can
finish my video yes yes yes yes yes Oh
perfect oh I didn't is this the YouTube
app yeah fancy sorry I guess I could
have done that on my phone okay so
basically the question was how do you um
I talked about slow-mo in the beginning
of video so once this is upload you can
go back I'll try to add timestamps so
what the question was is you have a here
let me pull up my vlog from yesterday
vlog
okay so this is what a finish project
looks like for me and if you haven't
watched yesterday's flow you should
watch after the stream so this looks
kind of crazy and my computer is already
starting to freak out because there's so
many elements that are going on right
now but basically the question was what
if you have a sequence that looks like
this or similar to this and it's all
finished but you want to add like say I
want to add something right in the
middle of right here well there's stuff
right there and like how do you do that
so say let's say I'm going to go into
some footage here say I want to grab
this clip and I want to add this clip
right into the middle basically what you
would do
oh here's a good here's a good tip um so
say I want to add it smack dab in the
middle um like even I want to cut the
like I don't even want the music there I
just want this clip so press C for the
Blade tool or maybe it's B I have
different shortcuts so it might be
different but press this the Blade tool
the razor tool the shortcut will be
right next to it and you press shift and
once you press shift while you're using
the Blade tool instead of just cutting
this one clip it will cut everything it
will cut everything and all your video
tracks it will cut everything in the
audio tracks so press shift so you just
got to cut right in the center of
everything and then you're going to
press a which is the tracking shortcut
and basically what this does is when you
click it it selects everything to the
right of it so if I expand it selected
everything to the right of this and so
press a and then just scoot the footage
on over press V to get back to the
pointer tool drag the clip that you want
and like now that's in the middle and
you just press a again and bring it on
back and you just add it a clip in the
middle of your video so hopefully that
answered your call
question I'll take like two more
questions okay oh this is so important
what is a adjustment layer adjustment
layers are so clutch I could do an
entire stream on just adjustment layers
but the brief answer to that this will
be the last thing I answer so the brief
explanation of adjustment layer is it's
a way to apply effects to multiple Clips
so whenever you use an adjustment layer
it's basically saying I have these clips
right here that I want to apply let's
say let's get an effect real quick say I
want um let's just go into luma treat
color again say I want to make all of
these clips underneath black and white
normally if you wanted to make a clip a
clip black and white you would apply Lua
tree color to this one clip and then you
would you would go into the effects and
you would say um let's see you just
bring the saturation you just like bring
it down like oh it's pretty black and
white now and then you would say copy
and then you would like say paste
settings to all of it and that's like
insanely inconvenient so instead of
applying effects to individual Clips
what you can do is you can say okay I
don't want just a single clip black and
white but I want all of these clips
black and white so you would say you
would go into you would say new and then
you'll click adjustment layer you have
to have your you have to have this
window selected you would say new
adjustment layer yeah
new adjustment layer and that would pop
up and you would drag and drop your
adjustment layer over into video track
and then you would apply that effect
let's go back to effects you would apply
that effect to the adjustment layer
instead of all these clips and so now
you can adjust the effects on this
adjustment layer right here and it will
apply that effect to every single thing
that is underneath that adjustment layer
so you go and so say your goal is to
make it black and white you would just
adjust that so it's black and white so
now if you watch every single one of
these clips are now black and white it's
not just a single clip but every single
these clips so you can like the sky's
the limit with adjustment layers you can
apply anything to an adjustment layer
and it will apply that effect to every
single thing underneath it so adjustment
layers are so so clutch yeah just like
in Photoshop so if you guys like this
make sure to LIKE the video and if you
aren't subscribed subscribed yet
subscribe to my channel this will be
live on my channel right after I end
this you can go back and watch if you
are confused with apart I don't think
the chat saves but you can go back on
the save video and like comment asking a
question I'll try to answer your
questions as much as I can and if you're
like a premier ninja and you can help
out my homies the PG fans feel free to
go and answer some comments and I will
do like more of these I'm sharing out
like sorry it was kind of rough them
getting but I am figuring out the
streaming thing and I think it helps a
lot of you guys so yeah make sure like
this video hit the subscribe button
watch my blog that I posted last night
it is snowboarding and skiing in the
same day in California I am in
California thank you guys so much for
joining love you all
stay peachy okay bye